Refine backup and restore documentation (#518)
pingcap/tidb-operator: docs/backup-restore.md

> # Backup and Restore TiDB Cluster

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Backup and Restore a TiDB Cluster
```

> ## Overview

Reviewer: Please remove this unnecessary line. An intro para that directly follows the title is a rule for a standard tech document.

TiDB Operator supports two kinds of backup:

> * [Full backup](#full-backup)(scheduled or ad-hoc) via [`mydumper`](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/mydumper/), which helps you logical backup the TiDB cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Full backup](#full-backup)(scheduled or ad-hoc) via [`mydumper`](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/mydumper/), which helps you to logically back up a TiDB cluster.
```

Reviewer: Or `helps you with the logical backup of a TiDB cluster`

> * [Incremental backup](#incremental-backup) via [`TiDB-Binlog`](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-binlog/overview/), which helps you synchronize the data in the TiDB cluster to other database or backup the data at real-time.

Reviewer: Pay attention to the usage of verbs and nouns.

```suggestion
* [Incremental backup](#incremental-backup) via [`TiDB-Binlog`](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-binlog/overview/), which helps you replicate the data in a TiDB cluster to other databases or back up the data in real time.
```

> Currently, tidb-operator only supports automatic [restore operation](#restore) for full backup taken by `mydumper`. Restore the backup data captured by `TiDB-Binlog` requires human intervention.

Reviewer: Please keep using the standard version: **TiDB Operator**
```suggestion
Currently, TiDB Operator only supports automatic [restore operation](#restore) for full backup taken by `mydumper`. Restoring the backup data captured by TiDB Binlog requires manual intervention.
```

## Full backup

> Full backup using `mydumper` to take the logical backup of TiDB cluster. The backup job will create a PVC to store backup data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Full backup uses `mydumper` to take the logical backup of a TiDB cluster. The backup job creates a PVC to store backup data.
```

Reviewer: - How to understand the `to take` here? It's a little bit confusing.
- It would be better to add the full name to `PVC` by using parentheses, like `PVC (x x x)`.

Author: "Full backup uses `mydumper` to make a logical backup of a TiDB cluster"

Is this clearer?

> By default, the backup uses PV to store the backup data. You can also store the backup data to [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) bucket or [Ceph Object Storage](https://ceph.com/ceph-storage/object-storage/) by changing the configuration. This way the PV temporarily stores backup data before it is placed in object storage. Refer to [TiDB cluster Backup configuration] for full configuration guide of backup and restore.

Reviewer 2: This link `[TiDB cluster Backup configuration]` is missing.

> By default, the backup uses PV to store the backup data. You can also store the backup data to [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) bucket or [Ceph Object Storage](https://ceph.com/ceph-storage/object-storage/) by changing the configuration. This way the PV temporarily stores backup data before it is placed in object storage. Refer to [TiDB cluster Backup configuration](./references/tidb-backup-configuration.md) for full configuration guide of backup and restore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the backup uses PV (Persistent Volume) to store the backup data. You can also store the backup data to [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) bucket or [Ceph Object Storage](https://ceph.com/ceph-storage/object-storage/) by changing the configuration. In this way, the PV temporarily stores backup data before it is placed in object storage. Refer to [TiDB cluster Backup configuration](./references/tidb-backup-configuration.md) for full configuration guide of backup and restore.
```

Reviewer: Does `This way` mean the Google Cloud Storage or Ceph Object Storage way?

Author: Yes

> You can either setup a scheduled full backup or take a full backup in ad-hoc manner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can either set up a scheduled full backup or take a full backup in an ad-hoc manner.
```

### Scheduled full backup

> Scheduled full backup is created along side the TiDB cluster, and it runs periodically like the crontab job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scheduled full backup is created alongside the TiDB cluster, and it runs periodically like the crontab job.
```

> To configure a scheduled full backup, modify the `scheduledBackup` section in the `charts/tidb-cluster/values.yaml` of the tidb cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure a scheduled full backup, modify the `scheduledBackup` section in the `charts/tidb-cluster/values.yaml` file of the TiDB cluster:
```

* Set `scheduledBackup.create` to `true`
* Set `scheduledBackup.storageClassName` to the PV storage class name used for backup data

> > **Note:** You must set the scheduled full backup PV's [reclaim policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-reclaim-policy) to `Retain` to keep your backup data safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> You must set the scheduled full backup PV's [reclaim policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-reclaim-policy) to `Retain` to keep your backup data safe.
```

> * Configure `scheduledBackup.schedule` in the [Cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) format to define the scheduling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Configure `scheduledBackup.schedule` in the [Cron](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) format to define the scheduling.
```

> * `scheduledBakcup.user` and `scheduledBackup.password` must be set to the correct user which has the permission to read the database to be backuped.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `scheduledBakcup.user` and `scheduledBackup.password` must be set to the correct user which has the privilege to read the database to be backuped.
```

> * `scheduledBakcup.user` and `scheduledBackup.password` must be set to the correct user which has the permission to read the database to be backuped.

Reviewer 3: operator uses `scheduledBackup.secretName` to store the username and password now.

user can create the secret by:
```
kubectl create secret generic backup-secret --from-literal=user=root --from-literal=password=<password>
 ```

> Then, create a new cluster with the scheduled full backup configured by `helm install`, or enabling scheduled full backup for existing cluster by `helm upgrade`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, create a new cluster with the scheduled full backup configured by `helm install`, or enabling scheduled full backup for the existing cluster by `helm upgrade`:
```

```shell
$ helm upgrade ${RELEASE_NAME} charts/tidb-cluster -f charts/tidb-cluster/values.yaml
```

### Ad-Hoc full backup

> Ad-hoc backup runs to complete for once. This functionality is encapsulated in another helm chart, `charts/tidb-backup`. According to the `mode` in `charts/tidb-backup/values.yaml`, this chart can perform either full backup or restore. We will cover restore operation in the [restore section](#restore) of this document. 

Reviewer: This sentence (`Ad-hoc backup runs to complete for once.`) is not clear enough. Could you explain it?

Author: Maybe "Ad-hoc backup run to completion for once"?

I want to emphasize that, comparing to scheduled backup, ad-hoc backup only run to completion for once (if the ad-hoc backup failed, retrying will be performed automatically, but we guarantee that it only **completes** once).

Author: I've removed this misleading line.

> To create an ad-hoc full backup job, modify the `charts/tidb-backup/values.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an ad-hoc full backup job, modify the `charts/tidb-backup/values.yaml` file:
```

> * Set the `clusterName` to the target TiDB cluster name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `clusterName` to the target TiDB cluster name
```

* Set `mode` to `backup`
* Set `storage.className` to the PV storage class name used for backup data
* Adjust the `storage.size` according to your database size

> > **Note:** You must set the ad-hoc full backup PV's [reclaim policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-reclaim-policy) to `Retain` to keep your backup data safe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:**
>
> You must set the ad-hoc full backup PV's [reclaim policy](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/change-pv-reclaim-policy) to `Retain` to keep your backup data safe.
```

> Create a secret containing the user and password that has the permission to backup the database:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a secret containing the user and password that has the privilege to back up the database:
```

Reviewer: `a secret` what? Readers will feel that you forget one word. Cloud you explain what `secret` means here?

Author: It's a noun in Kubernetes context, actually I mean "Create a Kubernetes [Secret]() containing...". 
I will make it clear.

```shell
$ kubectl create secret generic backup-secret -n ${namespace} --from-literal=user=<user> --from-literal=password=<password>
```

Then run the following command to create an ad-hoc backup job:

```shell
$ helm install charts/tidb-backup --name=<backup-name> --namespace=${namespace}
```

### View backups

> For backups stored in PV, you can view the PVs by the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backups stored in PV, you can view the PVs by using the following command:
```

```shell
$ kubectl get pvc -n ${namespace} -l app.kubernetes.io/component=backup,pingcap.com/backup-cluster-name=${cluster_name}
```

> If you store your backup data to [Google Cloud Storage] or [Ceph Object Storage], you may view the backups by the related GUI or CLI tool.

Reviewer 2: These two links are missing too.

> If you store your backup data to [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) or [Ceph Object Storage](https://ceph.com/ceph-storage/object-storage/), you may view the backups by the related GUI or CLI tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you store your backup data to [Google Cloud Storage](https://cloud.google.com/storage/) or [Ceph Object Storage](https://ceph.com/ceph-storage/object-storage/), you can view the backups by using the related GUI or CLI tool.
```

## Restore

> The helm chart `charts/tidb-backup` helps restoring a TiDB cluster using backup data. To perform a restore operation, modify the `charts/tidb-backup/values.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The helm chart `charts/tidb-backup` helps restore a TiDB cluster using backup data. To perform a restore operation, modify the `charts/tidb-backup/values.yaml` file:
```

> * Set the `clusterName` to the target TiDB cluster name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set `clusterName` to the target TiDB cluster name
```

* Set the `mode` to `restore`

> * Set the `name` to the backup name you want to restore([view backups](#view-backups) helps you view all the backups available). If the backup is stored in `Google Cloud Storage` or `Ceph Object Storage`, you have to configure the corresponding section too(likely, you will continue to use the same configuration you set in the [adhoc full backup](#ad-hoc-full-backup)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Set the `name` to the backup name you want to restore([view backups](#view-backups) helps you view all the backups available). If the backup is stored in `Google Cloud Storage` or `Ceph Object Storage`, you must configure the corresponding section too (you might continue to use the same configuration you set in the [adhoc full backup](#ad-hoc-full-backup)).
```

> Create a secret containing the user and password that has the permission to restore the database (skip this if you've already created one in the [adhoc full backup](#ad-hoc-full-backup) section):

Reviewer: - ditto
- Try to avoid using contractions like "you've" in tech documentation. Use "you have" instead.

Author: got it

```shell
$ kubectl create secret generic backup-secret -n ${namespace} --from-literal=user=<user> --from-literal=password=<password>
```

Then, restore the backup:
```shell
$ helm install charts/tidb-backup --namespace=${namespace}
```

## Incremental backup

> Incremental backup leverage the [`TiDB-Binlog`](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-binlog/overview/) tool to collect binlog data from TiDB and provide real-time backup and synchronization to downstream platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incremental backup leverages the [TiDB Binlog](https://www.pingcap.com/docs/dev/reference/tools/tidb-binlog/overview/) tool to collect binlog data from TiDB and provide real-time backup and replication to downstream platforms.
```

> Incremental backup is disabled in the TiDB cluster by default. To create a TiDB cluster with incremental backup enabled or enable incremental backup in existing TiDB cluster, you have to modify the `charts/tidb-cluster/values.yaml`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Incremental backup is disabled in the TiDB cluster by default. To create a TiDB cluster with incremental backup enabled or enable incremental backup in existing TiDB cluster, modify the `charts/tidb-cluster/values.yaml` file:
```

* Set `binlog.pump.create` to `true`
* Set `binlog.drainer.create` to `true`
* Set `binlog.pump.storageClassName` and `binlog.drainer.storageClassName` to a proper `storageClass` available in your kubernetes cluster
* Set `binlog.drainer.destDBType` to your desired downstream, explained in detail below

> There's three types of downstream available for incremental backup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Three types of downstream platforms available for incremental backup:
```

> * PersistenceVolume: default downstream. You may consider configuring a large PersistenceVolume for `drainer` (the `binlog.drainer.storage` variable) in this case

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* PersistenceVolume: default downstream. You can consider configuring a large PersistenceVolume for `drainer` (the `binlog.drainer.storage` variable) in this case.
```

> * MySQL compatible database: enable by setting the `binlog.drainer.destDBType` to `mysql`. You have to configure the target address and credential in the `binlog.drainer.mysql` section too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* MySQL compatible database: enabled by setting `binlog.drainer.destDBType` to `mysql`. You must configure the target address and credential in the `binlog.drainer.mysql` section too.
```

> * Kafka: enable by setting the `binlog.drainer.destDBType` to `kafka`. You have to configure the zookeeper address and kafka address in the `binlog.drainer.kafka` section too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kafka: enable by setting `binlog.drainer.destDBType` to `kafka`. You must configure the zookeeper address and Kafka address in the `binlog.drainer.kafka` section too.
```
